## Commit Rules

### Commit Message Format

```
<type><(scope)>: <subject>
<BLANK LINE>
<body>
<BLANK LINE>
<footer>
```

### Type

Type indicates the class of current git commit.

Must be one of the following:

* build: Changes involved with the build system
* ci: Changes to the CI configuration files and scripts
* docs: Changes involved with documents
* feat: A new feature
* fix: A bug fix
* perf: Changes that improves performance of the code
* refactor: Rewriting the code that neither adds a new feature nor fixes a bug
* style: Changes that not affect the function of the code and only affect the format of the code
* test:  Adding new test code or correcting existed test code

### Scope(optional)

Scope should be the scope of the code affected by this git commit. The scope is different in different project.

### Subject

Subject contains a succinct description of the change:

* Use the imperative and present sense: *change* not *changes* nor *changed*.
* Don't capitalize the first letter.
* Don't dot "." at the end.

### Body(optional)

Just as in the **subject**, use the imperative and present sense. The body should include the motivation of the change.

### Footer(optional)

Footer contains **BREAKING CHANGES** and is the place to refer issues. The format of issue referring is `Close #<issue-num>` and in case of multiple issues is `Close #<issue-num>, #<issue-num>`.

## FAQ

### 1. Push a existed repository to a remote repository.

1. Create a repository on Github.
2. Add remote repository by `git remote add <name> <url>`.
3. Fetch remote repository by `git fetch <remote-repository>`.
4. Set the upstream of current local branch by `git branch -u <remote-name>/<remote-branch>`.
5. Git pull to merge upstream by `git pull --allow-unrelated-histories`.
6. Git push current local branch by `git push`.

### 2. Rename a local branch.

```bash
# Git checkout branch which will be renamed.
git branch -m <new-name>
```

### 3. Change the default branch name created by `git init`.

```bash
git config --global init.defaultBranch <name>
```

### 4. Amend the code for which you don't want to add a new commit.

```bash
git add --all
git commit --amend
git push -f
```

### 5. Change the default name created by the command `git init` with Git of version later than 2.28.

```bash
# For the current repository
git init --initial-branch=<name>
# Or
git init -b <name>
# Global setting for all repositories
git config --global init.defaultBranch <name>
```

### 6. Git commit with editor.

Set `export EDITOR='vim'` to `~/.zshrc` to set the default editor. And use `git commit ` instead of `git commit -m`.

### 7. Git fetch.

Fetch remote repositories.

1. Fetch all of the branches from the remote repository:

   ```bash
   git fetch <remote-repository>
   ```

2. Fetch the specific branch from the remote repository:

   ```bash
   git fetch <remote-repository> <remote-branch>
   ```

   

